1) a. Data can be identified as “known facts that can be recorded and have implicit meaning”. A database is simply a collection of
related data. A database management system is a computerized system that allows a user to create and maintain a database. 
    b. Database systems has various unique qualities that distinguish them from the traditional file system    
    as well as data structures and algorithms. While traditional file systems require various users to define and implement 
    various files needed for a specific program, database systems are structured so that a single repository of information that is 
    defined only once and allows multiple users to access that data repeatedly in a variety of ways. 
    c. Database administrators/designers, end users, software engineers, tool developers, DBMS system designers and implementers

2) a. The categories of data models helps to organize the various types of databases into different groups in a way that is 
understandable. These categories are based upon various characteristics, and these characteristics differ between these models. 
Figure 2.1 contains a model that falls into the category of the relational data model. 

   b. The three-schema architecture is designed to separate the user application from the physical database. There are three levels 
   to this process. The internal level describes the actual storage structure of the database, giving the complete details of data
   storage and access paths. The conceptual level describes the structure of the entire database for a community of users. 
   Finally, the external level includes the external schemas, each describing a part of the database that a certain user group is 
   interested in, and hides the rest of the database from that group. 
   
   c. A web-based information system usually use the three-tier architecture, which adds an intermediate level between the client and database server levels. This is known as the application server, which runs program applications.
   
 
