Work through the following materials this week:

1) Read Section 30.1:
	a. Name and explain the four kinds of control measures required for database security.
		- Access control is handled by creating user accounts and passwords to control the login process by the DBMS. This is done to prevent
		unauthorized persons from accessing the system itself, either to obtain information or to make malicious changes in a portion of the 
		database.

		- Inference control is a control used in the output of databases to stop a person who has access to only summary information from being
		able to determine (infer) a particular value for a particular record.

		- Flow control is used to prevent information from flowing in such a way that it reaches unauthorized users. 

		- Data encryption is used to protect sensitive data (such as credit card numbers) that is transmitted via some type of communications
		network. Encryption can be used to provide additional protection for sensitive portions of a database as well.

	b. Compare and contrast information security and information privacy.
		- Information security means the protection of information and information systems from unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, 
		modification, or destruction in order to provide confidentiality, integrity, and availability. 	
		
		- Information privacy is the relationship between the collection and dissemination of data, technology, the public expectation of privacy, 
		and the legal and political issues surrounding them. Privacy concerns exist wherever personally identifiable information or other sensitive 
		information is collected, stored, used, and finally destroyed or deleted – in digital form or otherwise. Improper or non-existent disclosure 
		control can be the root cause for privacy issues.


2) Read Imperva’s Top 5 Database Security Threats.
	a. Name and explain the security threats discussed in the article.
		1) Excessive, Inappropriate, and Unused Privileges
			- The complexity of applications and the corresponding data structures used mean that administrators are inclined to grant excessive 
			privileges by default just to avoid the risk of application failure due to lack of access privileges. Thus, users may be granted generic
			or default access privileges that far exceed their specific job requirements, or they may simply accumulate such privileges over time. 
			Usually, enterprises protect or “harden” the devices of employeesin high positions (like the CEO, CFO etc.) from external (and internal) 
			attackers to protect the vast access to sensitive data these users require. This hardening facilitates the detection of a compromising 
			situation, termination of access and potential destruction of locally stored data. However, this is not a scalable or viable solution in 
			a BYOD world. When a device of an average user is compromised, it will likely be harder to detect, and if this user has excessive privileges
 			it can create a breach leading to a massive data loss incident. 

		2) Privilege Abuse
			- Imperva research that includes data from multiple organizations over a two-year period indicates that in every organization humans used 
			database service accounts to access databases, and that these users were misusing these privileged service accounts to access sensitive data 
			directly, bypassing the application interface.	In addition, certain “Privileged Users” may abuse legitimate database privileges for unauthorized 
			purposes. Certain user groups in the organization have privileges to access entire databases due to their occupation and activities. The
			two main categories of privileged users are database systems administrators and developers:
				• Database systems administrators (DBAs) have unlimited access to all data in
				the database. For the best security, DBAs should not access application data
				in the database (applicative data/tables) directly when they are administrating
				the database. When a DBA accesses the applicative data directly through the
				database instead of the application interface, he bypasses the application
				logging and retrieval limitations and avoids the application permissions and
				security mechanism.

				• Developers often have full access to production databases. The QA teams
				snapshot the databases for testing while engineers may debug live production
				systems. In both scenarios, sensitive data is vulnerable to privilege abuse.

		3) Most organizations rely heavily on apps to interface with customers. There are many types of attacks on applications that can expose data. Two common types 
		of web application attacks that target databases are SQL Injection and Web Shell. SQL Injection (SQLi) attacks have been a top threat on the Verizon DBIR report 
		for multiple years. SQLi attacks are a result of incomplete or inadequate input validation that allows bad actors to pass SQL commands to the database via the 
		web application in a manner that was never anticipated. 

		4) Weak Audit Trail
			-  Monitoring data access across the enterprise should be part of any production database deployment. The failure to monitor for both security and compliance 
			anomalies and collect the appropriate audit details of database activity represents a serious organizational risk at many levels. Additionally, organizations 
			with weak (or sometimes non-existent) database audit mechanisms also find that they are at odds with industry and government regulatory requirements. SarbanesOxley
			(SOX), which seeks to prevent accounting errors and fraudulent practices, and the Healthcare Information Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) in the healthcare 
			sector, are examples of regulations with clear database audit requirements. The newly introduced General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) for the European Union (EU) 
			is the first regulation that imposes debilitating fines for enterprise that fail to meet the stringent data protection measures that include a database monitoring capability 
			sufficient to meet the audit and breach notification requirements for all personal data.

		5)  Unsecured Storage Media
			- When was the last time you pondered the vulnerability of your backup storage media? Typically, it’s completely unprotected. Numerous security breaches have involved the theft 
			or incidental exposure of database backup disks and tapes. Taking the appropriate measures to protect backup copies of sensitive data is not only a data security best practice, 
			but also mandated by many regulations. In addition, highly privileged users will often have direct physical access to the database servers. This physical proximately means they 
			can insert thumb or USB drives and execute SQL commands directly to the database that will shut off native audit and bypass all protection mechanisms except those deployed at the 
			kernel level of the database server. You want a robust database monitoring and protection tool that will not allow these types of breaches. 