1) a. Data can be identified as “known facts that can be recorded and have implicit meaning”. A database is simply a collection of
    related data. A database management system is a computerized system that allows a user to create and maintain a database. 
    
    b. Database systems has various unique qualities that distinguish them from the traditional file system    as well as data 
    structures and algorithms. While traditional file systems require various users to define and implement various files needed 
    for a specific program, database systems are structured so that a single repository of information that is defined only once 
    and allows multiple users to access that data repeatedly in a variety of ways. 
    
    c. Database administrators/designers, end users, software engineers, tool developers, DBMS system designers and implementers

2) a. The categories of data models are very important, as they are used to define how a database should be structured, based upon
the data that goes into the database. It also helps to define the various differences between high-level and low-level data model 
that describe how data is stored on the computer storage media.

   b. Developed in the 1970s, the three-schema architecture helps to evaluate a relational database from different vantage points.
The first of the three levels is called the external level, which is the view of the relational database that end users see. The 
second level is the conceptual level, which describes the structure of the database for a community of users. The third level is 
the internal schema or internal level, where the database is physically maintained on a hardware system. The three-schema 
architecture is generally attributed to the ANSI/SPARC group and is also known as the "ANSI/SPARC" architecture.

   c. The tiers typically used in a web based information system reflects those used in a three-schema architecture. The front end
   tier defines how the user views the data in the database that the system pulls from. The second tier describes how the database
   used is structured, and the third level defines where the database is actually physically stored. 
